# CUGL App Creator
---

This library is a open source cross platform game library written in C++. It 
supports Android, iOS, Linux (including SteamOS), macOS, and Windows. It is 
primarily designed for mobile game development, focusing on Android and iOS. 
It also supports the Steam Deck via a Flatpak project.

CUGL is built on [SDL](https://www.libsdl.org) and features the same app 
creation tools we introduced in [SDL App](https://github.com/Cornell-GDIAC/SDL_app). 
This allows developers to quickly build and deploy their projects to all of the 
platforms supported by CUGL.

This directory is itself a Python script, whose purpose is to create the 
appropriate IDE project for the application. While CMake is supported by CUGL,
mobile applications such as iOS and Android need further customization not 
supported by CMake. In addition, the XCode and Visual Studio projects generated 
by this script are significantly cleaner and easier to debug than those 
generated by CMake.

## Project Setup

To use that app creator, you should first have an app directory. This 
directory should contain a YAML configuration file. This file is used to 
specify the location of the following 

- Location of all source code files
- Location of any additional include files
- The game assets (textures, sounds, etc)
- The application icon

Except for the source code files (which must include a `main`), all of these are 
optional. The icon should be specified as a 1024x1024 PNG file.

## Setup Script

The python setup script assumes that the following packages are installed:

- [PyYAML](https://pyyaml.org)
- [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [shortuuid](https://pypi.org/project/shortuuid/)

The first two are for reading the configuration file and generating the icon 
assets, respectively. The script will fail if they are not present. The last 
package is for UUID generation for XCode projects. Without it, generated XCode 
projects will have weaker uniqueness guarantees on their UUIDs.

To create an SDL application, run this folder as a python program as follows

    python sdlapp <project>

where `project` is a directory containing `config.yml`. This is a YAML 
configuration file describing all of the application properties. See the 
provided demos for an explanation of the various settings. 

Most build options are specified in the config file. However, the script does 
support some command line arguments as well. They are as follows.

- `-b, --build `   The build directory
- `-c, --config`   The configuration file
- `-t, --target`   The active build target

The latter option can be used to specify a single build target. It can be one of 
`android`, `apple`, `windows` or `cmake`. The `cmake` option supports all of the 
platforms that SDL does, though we have only tested it against Linux and the 
platforms listed above, and we have made modifications to the default SDL CMake 
file. The other options create an IDE project for the given platform. For 
example, `android` creates an Android Studio project while `apple` creates an 
XCode project for both macOS and iOS combined. The `windows` option creates a 
Visual Studio project. All projects are fully configured and ready to run.

Finally, we have provided a `flatpak` option inside the CMake build directory. 
This is for packaging x86 Linux builds for rapid deployment on the Steam Deck. 